---
title: "Coding Journey Blog Post 2"
date: 2024-04-05
---

As this week ends, I am looking forward to the weekend not to relax and take it easy but to get back on the grind. These last few days I was unable to do the work I wanted to do because I had to go back home to Seattle for a few days and got out of my routine and rhythm here in Chicago. But I am back, recovered, rested, fired up, and ready to go. 

I posted my last blog/writing blurb onto medium and while it was an easy process, something was unsettling in my stomach. Medium and writing sites are created for people to share to their social media and generate viewership so that they can hold off hope that maybe one day they will magically have thousands of, "followers" where they can enable monetization. I came to the realization - fuck that! I have been off social media for over a year now and it has been liberating. I am not looking for clout. I am not looking for prestige or even recognition. I am just doing things for myself. That's selfish, but who am I kidding? So I am going to take down that medium post and start my own website with the domain name www.rahulsingal.com which I own that way I can manage everything from one spot and have my minimal online presence controlled from one location without feeling compelled to write bullshit or act a certain way that seeks external validation. If anyone reads this or visits my site, then great! But it's not something I will care if people read or try to think about as I continue with my life.

Anyways. My website that I will go through the process of creating this weekend will emulate Paul Graham's website - paulgraham.com. The structure, small font, and pure simplicity in how he maintains his site is absolute genius. I love everything about that simplistic nature versus modern sites that are just too over engineered and stylistic. I'll let my art and creativity shine in the forms of work I want to create such as coding, blogging, essays, short stories, novels, photography, or any other art endeavor I attempt. It requires a simple user experience for any prospective visitor and for my personal sanity. Less is more. I really come back to that motto and can draw a relevant parallel in anything I do now. Maybe it's a good time to write a bit about how I discovered this phrase and attempt to reason why it's struck such a chord with me.

I heard it first in a Virat Kohli interview with an American sports podcaster - in depth with graham bensinger. Growing up I watched cricket with my grandfather and Virat Kohli being one of the players in my generation I was familiar with his name and character. Listening to his interview struck such a chord with me maybe because he is an Indian professional athlete and although I am not Indian myself but American, having an Indian background probably made me have a more personal connection with his message. He talked about losing his father when he was about 19-20 years old and when I listened to the podcast it was about a year after my own father passed away when I was 25. So hearing how we both lost our fathers in a similar sudden fashion made me reflect on how it affected me after hearing his take. So that was what really drew me into him and then deeper into his philosophies about other aspects of his life. 

This is where we come to the, "less is more" philosophy when he was discussing nutrition and fitness. He talked about the concept that in order to become the best athlete he could, he had to adopt this philosophy. An example is that he talked about being able to have the same 3 meals day in and out for 6 months no problem. Less is more. I believe he talked about becoming a stronger athlete required larger muscles and for biceps it doesn't matter which one of the numerous variations of exercises he could choose from, you just need to pick an exercise and not over think it. 

I started this post talking about how this translates into my coding journey and will probably continue to reference it as I continue over the next few months, but some examples where I am trying to live this philosophy is in my workout and nutrition. From a workout perspective, my "less is more" philosophy is that I've set a plan and routine to follow weekly that I know works for me, so that I can go into autopilot mode each week because I know my goals. From a nutritional standpoint I've also simplified the food I make during the weeks so that I can spend less time wondering what I am going to eat and less money on outside food. I afford myself some days, generally weekends for me to experiment and cook new dishes. And of course I enjoy the occasional meal outside with friends while traveling or in the culinary beauty of a city that is Chicago. 
